Couldn't be here tonight and so they can watch it later.
OK, now I think everybody's muted, so welcome, everyone, and thanks for coming.
So this is a session for especially for those who are interested in coming and studying with our
new program at Mipham Institute.
So we're very excited to get this started officially like that and meet some of you for the first
time.
The way we plan to run this is I have a short presentation to cover the main points or the main
elements of information.
Really, everything is already on the website, but sometimes it's easier to explain it a little bit
more.
And I'll try to do that very quickly.
And afterwards, everybody will get a chance to ask more specific questions.
I think for some of you are perhaps considering actually joining the program.
You may have like some practical, very specific questions, so I think it may be useful for you to
get a chance to ask those.
So what we'll do is I'll start right away with the presentations and afterwards for the question
session, I would ask you to type the questions in the chat.
In the chat function of the presentation.
And I think that's the most efficient way of having the questions asked and answered, and then we
'll go through each one individually and hopefully hopefully we'll have time to answer every concern
or question you may have.
So I'm going to go ahead with the slides.
Thanks, everyone, for joining.
It's very nice to see all some known people and some new also.
And here is the slideshow.
So these are just a very few basic points of information that I have created in order to go over
the main points.
And, of course, it's not going. Yeah, so just the introduction MIPAM Institute is quite a new
project even for me a few months ago, I didn't even know we were going to start this project on the
Padma Sambhava Buddhist Center, but it really started last summer in July.
When I was in TSL and under the sort of encouragement and recommendation of our teacher, and I can
put someone in much I can put someone down there much I was there and somehow the elements came
into place together with.
can put a much in with the family foundation and with PSL and the idea came up of starting sort of
natural continuation of our programs with BBC and to expand a little bit our activity for those who
have a little bit more time and interest to focus on learning Tibetan in the Buddhist view in more
detail.
So I was asked by much to kind of start and work with this program and kind of get it started, but
really, like in last June, I had no idea we're going to do this.
But we also decided to just go ahead. So we're planning to launch our programs, as you know, I
think those of you who are here, you've read our website from next fall, from September and it's a
three year program and it's a big commitment.
So we want to give everybody a chance to ask their questions. But really, the main thing to
understand is that we really see me upon institute as fitting within the activities of BBC.
And as a natural continuation of the teachings of Venerable Kampura Moches and really to go and
develop more programs to go a little bit more in depth for those who want to apply this kind of
study part of Buddhist tradition as we received it from Tibetan lineage masters.
As you know, within BBC, we've had Tibetan language over the years, several programs. We've also
had a very rich Sheta series.
Starting, I think, from the early 2000s for people who studied the philosophy, but this is to make
it a little bit more formal, a little bit more robust.
And so this is what the Mipham Institute is about. The name Mipham Institute was chosen by Ramache.
We need to highlight our connection with that great teacher, Mipham Ramache, who considered to be
kind of a main lineage teacher for us.
But also for our teacher at the late Venerable Kenshin, Adenshara Ramache, who was so close to Mip
ham, who himself composed many commentaries on his works and also always emphasize the teachings of
Mipham
for like the sadhanas and practice and commentaries and so forth. And so we see ourselves as the
natural continuation also of our
connection with that great teacher.
So just I'm going to go very quickly over the main goals of the program. The goal is to develop an
in-depth connection with the lineage teachings.
Of course, there is a kind of with Mipham Institute, there will be a little bit more of an academic
dimension to the teaching and the kind of kind of study we're going to do.
That means going into the philosophical commentaries with more detail, more depth.
But it's really not something completely fundamentally different from the way we've been receiving
teachings and practicing over the years, is to just
study not the way we do, for example, in the universities for academic purposes, theoretical or
purely historical or humanities kind of thing, but really as a way to connect with the practice
lineage.
It's also a goal of the institute to foster and encourage a new kind of a continuing generation of
students who can learn the Tibetan language.
So we have a little bit more time
to have some people who are comfortable both with Tibetan and English and sort of facilitate the
more in-depth transmission of the teachings over the next years by having people who are familiar
with both languages and can
read in Tibetan, read teachings, commentaries, but also apply that to practice.
Our approach to studying Buddhist philosophy is we're trying to stay as close as possible to the
lineage teachings and the lineage kind of methods.
In our Nima school, that was mostly developed in the 19th century, based on commentaries by Mipham
and the different shiras that were built
in Tibet, but also very much in line with the way it is studied right now in places like here in M
ipham, in India.
And within the monasteries, of course, there are some differences, but we're trying to follow a
similar approach and really if somebody asked me, what is our approach to the study of Buddhist
thought and Buddhist philosophy.
My kind of simple way of putting it is approaching and viewing teachings as big instructions to be
applied to our own life and not as intellectual curiosities for intellectual history and not as a
sort of anthropology of Buddhist views.
And not as, I mean, whatever the theoretical goals maybe people have in academia, but really as
something to be applied to our own lives.
That is the main approach, which is also the way
often we see the teachings described in the non-sectarian approach of really treating all Buddhist
teachings as big instructions and try to
understand them so we can apply them to our own life, our own practice.
Regarding the contents of the program, I think you all read from the website, we're trying to
launch a three-year program.
Maybe you can see all this. I don't know how.
Three years, so it's not just a program where people come casually and take apart here and there.
We're trying to really create a cohort of students who are going to take the whole program.
The reason for that is that in our experience with classical Tibetan, learning Tibetan in the
Dharma Center, it's difficult to create a sense of commitment over a long time and sense of
continuity where people really progress
by following a curriculum and we often end up starting from the beginning again and again and not
really getting some progress. So now we're trying to create the conditions for people to be able to
really study and
improve so that
in the end they develop some familiarity and some also confidence in reading and using Tibetan.
The goal for Tibetan language is very important to understand because I heard also some questions
about that last week is classical Tibetan is what we're going to be teaching. Not conversation.
We're not going to do classes on going to the restaurant and ordering food or that kind of thing.
It's really focusing on learning Tibetan grammar
and learning in the classical language, the language that is used for Dharma teachings. The goal is
to be able to read commentaries, read the teachings
from Indian Shastras and their translation and read the commentaries, but also to some extent to be
able to read practice texts in Tibetan, which sometimes we still do also the sadhanas, for example,
in the
practice together in Tibetan and so to also help students do that because it really is the same
language. Now that being said, it doesn't mean we're just going to be reading silently and kind of
treating it as a
bad language. There is a way to use classical Tibetan, whether it's in our study of the philosophy
or in practice as a living language.
OK, so it's not like we're not we're still going to be talking about pronunciation and being able
to talk, being able to ask questions, for example, in class in Tibetan, eventually not right from
the beginning, probably, but eventually, but really not focusing on everyday
conversational Tibetan.
That decision really is from our sort of sense of wanting to focus on the main goals of the program
.
Also, in my experience, if somebody learns really good classical Tibetan, it's also quite easy
after, if they want to learn conversational Tibetan, to pick it up.
But the main factor seems to be immersion, being able to live in a place where there are Tibetan
speakers and applying the knowledge of the language to learn it.
And so and there are a lot of places where you can study that already.
So we decide we're not going to be focusing on that for our program.
Second, regarding the philosophy, we're doing Shraddha style.
So Intubate, as you know, often the monastery is at both Shraddha and Dhrubdha.
Dhrubdha are the retreat programs for people to go into meditation retreats and focus on the
practice.
And Shraddha is the kind of explanation part or the intellectual part, you could say, where people
really study in-depth the view, the teachings of the Buddha and try to get a lot of clarity on
their meaning.
And their importance and how to understand them.
So that is how we see it.
I think we have already at Bhimasam Yelling and Padmasambhava Buddhist Centre, kind of Dhrubdha, I
expect, because there are much as I've been teaching so many things over the years.
We've received so many teachings and we've had also some focus on understanding philosophy in view.
But this is to make it a little bit more in-depth and more robust, and especially including people
to keep studying in the program that progresses over time in a sort of
curriculum. So for the philosophy, the teachers will be people who are trained in the traditional
institutions.
That means in the monastic Shraddhas, basically campus of people who have graduated from some of
the Shraddhas.
It's not going to be me, for example, we're going to be teaching philosophy courses directly.
We're really trying to stay with the model of the line by line commentary on the Indian text.
And based on the Tibetan commentaries, for example, by teachers like Mipham, who has commentaries
on most of the important texts of the Indian tradition.
That being said, it's not going to be purely based on the composite lecture.
Traditionally, there's a review class also in the Shraddha.
After students have been explained, they can come back and ask questions.
And so this is going to be a part of the program, also review class, but also more like contextual
introductions.
In my experience, this is needed also for students who are taking the class.
It's useful to have more contextual presentation, more general introduction to some topics.
So we will have some of that also.
And that might be taught by people like myself, for example, or eventually some other faculty
members.
As for the practicalities, the format.
We're trying to go based on advice of Kemporo Moche and based on sort of our experience, we're
trying to go with a combination of
both in-person and online teaching.
So the in-person part will take place in Pema Samilung Retreat Center.
We have wonderful facilities there.
And I think many of you are familiar with our retreat center.
We have a very big land with over 100 acres and natural space and quite contemplative environment
and with the support of the local Sangha there.
And our goal is to not just be online and listening to lectures, but to really create a sense of
community in the students
and also the teachers.
And so it's not just this disembodied watching screens all the time, but we try to get to know each
other and support each other
in learning and studying.
And also, you know, especially that in-person interaction in that sense of being all together, we
think is very important.
There are many online programs everywhere, but I think we think this this is very important for us
to be able to progress.
So the in-person sessions at PSL, I think you've seen it on the website, will take place twice a
year for the first three year batch of the program.
The first one will be in September, this coming September.
And the second one is in June.
So they're like in the beginning and end of the academic year, you could say.
And they last for four weeks each, so basically a month.
So students have to be ready to be in PSL for twice a year for a full month
for that part of the program.
The time commitment for the program for this program, eventually we will try to expand and have a
little bit more sort of slow paced
kind of classes and sort of learning activities that people can do from home on a more casual basis
.
But for this program, it's very important that all aspects are required.
So we don't really want students to take only the in-person and not the online or only the online
and not the in-person or only the philosophy and not the Tibetan.
For example, we're trying to really make a full curriculum that everybody takes.
So every student is progressing at a similar pace and then it's much easier also to teach because
people have a similar level of understanding and progression.
So aspects of all the parts are required and they are compulsory.
The level of study is we also are trying to get.
It's going to be not just kind of beginning and casual, but people who want to take the study at N
ipam Institute should understand that this is an intensive program and there are classes every day.
And in the language course, for example, you have to be ready to keep up the pace and kind of learn
and progress as we go, because if we really want students to progress and be able to read and read
the satanas, read the commentaries slowly,
become confident in that aspect over three years, it demands quite a level of commitment.
And so it's kind of an important thing for people to understand that this is quite a demanding kind
of program.
We're not going to be completely traditional on this point and Tibet is extremely demanding and
students who cannot follow usually would be kind of left out or kicked out or anything like that.
So we're not going to be so harsh on this, but people should understand that, yes, this is
intensive and you have to be ready to really study basically full time while you're at PSL.
And even later on from the sessions at home, it's an ongoing program and it will be demanding.
While we're at PSL, there will be an intensive program, which is basically full time study.
So everyday philosophy class, everyday Tibetan and also review class.
So people have to kind of imagine those of you who went to university, similar to being in the full
time program in university.
So you shouldn't expect like to do so many other things while you are living at PSL and you're
doing the one month in person program.
We're trying to really use that time together to really get started and set up a very strong sort
of momentum for our study.
So that would be a full time session.
Doing after the one month session at PSL, we'll have a break and then we'll start doing the online
program and we'll be slightly less intensive here for the time commitment for the online.
There will be classes to take every day, every weekday.
Some of them will offer some degree of flexibility because we're hoping to have some pre-recorded
lectures that people can take in their own time.
But there will also be some live sessions.
For example, the Tibetan language classes I hope to run as live sessions.
And these may not happen every day, but still it will be a significant commitment.
You can expect about three hours of live session, for example.
And with this kind of study, also, you should understand that similar to when you're taking
university level classes.
It's not just about showing up to class.
When you learn a language, for example, there is a lot of time you do on your own at home, homework
, memorizing vocabulary, doing exercises and things like that.
And that is the same also that is true also for the philosophy class, where we also need to spend
some time getting familiar with the material and making sure we identify all questions and so forth
.
For the format, of course, we're trying to be very close to the lineage sort of model.
But of course, we don't have every requirement that people were following in Tibet.
For example, in Tibet, it was really restricted to monastic communities.
So now, of course, we will also allow lay people.
This is more widely.
And in Tibet, for example, it was also restricted based on gender.
So, of course, we're not going to follow anything like that.
But still, we try to create a sense of being very places of intensive study where people really
apply themselves and learn in an intensive way and that becomes your practice, so to speak.
So you're engaged in that in a very intensive way.
I think this is the last slide.
So regarding living at PSL, many of you are familiar already with the retreat center.
There are very good quality accommodations.
Those of you are already considering it in a practical way coming and don't know with PSL, there's
a link on the program's page that explains how it works.
There are some private rooms available.
There are some shared dormitories, even like some smaller apartments, which I guarantee will be
available, but I think to some extent will be OK.
So there are very good facilities and also you have access to the land.
That also means that you will have access to or be part of the community at PSL, which means, you
know, there's everyday daily practice, different events on the main kind of days of the month, 10th
day, 25th day, things like that.
There's often some other programs, sometimes kampura mochi also is teaching a little bit here and
there.
There's other programs going on.
So this is all parts of the benefit of being at PSL.
Those of you who don't know, we're located in upstate New York.
The Catskills area, so it's beautiful natural environment as well.
There will also be usually there's meals prepared by local Sangha.
So the details are not all worked out, but there will be no basically ways to become part of the
local community and so that you can also have all those facilities arranged for yourself.
There is also I'm sure the question will come up of that.
We have a local Sangha of people who don't live at PSL, but live in the area.
So that would be, of course, available as well. Those who are based locally can come in for class
every day.
You don't have to stay at PSL itself, but the main part is to be there for all classes and learning
activities.
So that is the overview really of the main points, which I'm not sure I really added much more from
the website, but these are the main points.
And so now I would encourage you, like, if there is any question, any specific things you would
like to ask, please, I think the easiest way is to type in the chat because we don't get lost into
connecting mics and things like that.
So I would encourage you, if you have any question, like, please go ahead and we'll answer
everything like one by one.
But that's the overview and I hope I didn't forget anything important. But, by the way, I'm Philip.
So I'm going to be doing some managing of the program, but also some of the teaching, especially
the Tibetan language.
And also you can also see is also helping me with the running of the program, the administration
and programming and she beautifully helped with the website and things like that.
So we're both kind of the members of the team now.
So just so introductions, but so I'll be answering most of the questions, if anything came up
anything, OK, I see one here.
What would be the hours for the in-person?
I can't take a month of work, so hoping to work and take classes and what would be the hours for
online.
OK, thanks for that question. That is very important.
As I just said a few minutes ago, for the in-person program at PSL is pretty much a full time
commitment.
So if we have about an hour, an hour and a half of the philosophy course and then an hour and a
half or so of Tibetan and review class and then plus with the study, it would be hard to keep
working during that time.
For the online part of the program, we're trying to design it so people can keep a part time job,
for example, or maybe full time if they're really committed and they have a lot of energy.
But usually, for example, in the universities, we consider roughly in humanities, we had 15 hours
of class was considered a full time load.
And for one hour of class, we usually expect about three hours of preparation outside.
So during the in-person session at PSL, it would be pretty much equivalent to a full time load, of
course, as a college level for the online, more like part time.
But you still have to expect every day to have things to do and vocab to learn and homework and
also participate in some live sessions.
So it does require some flexibility and commitment for those that time commitment who are
interested.
We do have in the books the project of eventually starting a slower pace program where people
studied similar approach and similar materials.
But maybe, you know, it's more like one day per week kind of thing or sessions and things like that
.
But our program is now we're trying to really focus on launching the main three year full kind of
full hour cohort.
That's the main goal to really get it launched that way.
And the other programs hopefully will come a little bit after.
But there's been a lot of demands and I know it's hard for people to make the time unless you're
retired or anything like that.
So we're going to be trying to make that available as well eventually.
So I hope that answers the first question.
Now I have a second one.
Marie was the first four week in person session is done.
How soon will the online sessions begin now?
Also, how many weeks online per semester?
Yes, good one. So the tentative plan now is to have after the end of September, having a two week
break.
But two week break and then reconvene around mid October and the online program we're planning to
run for.
I think it's eight weeks or maybe 10 weeks, something like that.
So it ends around early early mid December ish kind of time in around the 10th of December.
So but those are five days a week.
So weekends are off, but still it's happening on a daily basis for about 10 weeks.
When we go through these texts, for example, the kinds of literature we'll be studying or text like
Bodhi Charyavatarat,
entering the way of the Buddha, the letter to a friend by Nagarjuna, and eventually maybe we'll go
into the philosophy.
It really takes some time to go line by line and the explanation of all the points.
And that's why we focus on that.
And for Tibetan also, really now we just don't want people to learn the alphabet and do a little
bit and then come again.
We really want to take it to the level where you're comfortable and you're reading.
So that's the goal. So that's kind of the model.
And then after the December, the fall online session ends, there will be a break also.
And then we'll be reconvening pretty much like the end of February for 10 weeks again.
It takes us to early May about and then break and then live session at PSL in June, which June in
PSL is a very nice time.
And also those of you. Yeah, that's it. I should stick to the question.
OK, thanks, Maria. I hope that answers. Can you expand on the aspirations for students who go
through the program?
Yes, sure. Thank you for the question.
So we we're not going to be giving BA degrees, MA degrees and things like that.
Like we're not involved in that part, for example, unlike places like under the Institute in Nepal.
But we're trying to create basically a robust, robust program where when people completed and
graduate, like they can say that we can know that they have a solid grasp of the philosophy of the
view in the Tibetan as well.
So the aspiration is really to help foster further generation of people who can eventually,
hopefully pass on the teachings.
And we think it's very to the further generations.
And we think it's really important element of being able to continue the lineage to have that
strong basis in the literature and in the teachings that we received from India and Tibet.
And so the aspirations is really similar to what we had in Tibet in Shaddas.
So to develop maybe not exactly using the titles and the certifications for lopin and campo, but as
close as possible as we can get to that kind of certification of people where we know they have a
solid grasp of the view.
They can explain it and they can also use the commentaries to support their own understanding and
explanation.
And also, also have that in-depth knowledge of both languages contribute to making that
transmission happen over the next.
And so traditionally in Tibetan Shaddas, people study, I mean, depending on the schools and the
places from seven to thirteen years.
So we're hoping that people who complete the first three years, we might be able to run a second
sort of more advanced session afterwards.
And probably at that time, we won't need to spend so much time learning Tibetan.
Hopefully, the Tibetan will be pretty good by then to really learn more about the view and
eventually have people who are comfortable understanding the main elements of the teachings that we
follow in our lineage, which are basically Madhyamaka philosophy.
Yoga Chara, Abhidhamma, and things like that. And some Buddhist logic and so forth.
So that's it. Thank you. OK, next one. I have some years of classical Tibetan.
But not much philosophical are the expectations for people's level of Tibetan at the start.
Yes, good question. That is one of the questions where I'm a little bit dealing with right now.
There are some students who might want to join, but already have some background in Tibetan.
So it's very important for us to make it available with people who have no background at all in
Tibetan so that they can start from scratch.
Either we're going to be starting right from the beginning and learning the writing system and so
forth, or maybe right after that.
So with the beginning of grammar and comprehension. But of course, based on who ends up taking the
program, we'll also adapt our teaching to the level of students.
So already I have quite a few people who told me I have already some quite good Tibetan, will I be
able to join and things like that.
So it's very possible based on who joins that we will have two different levels of Tibetan for a
while in the beginning so that people who already have some background can continue from where they
're at.
And not just start right at the beginning level, but it's difficult now to know for sure without
knowing who's there.
And so that's why those who seriously apply and want to join probably would be asking to meet you
in person and get a bit more details about what kind of studies you've done in the past.
Maybe in the beginning we would be kind of doing different activities to where people are at in
terms of their level of Tibetan and get started like that.
So, yeah, it's very likely that we'll have a sort of beginning class and more intermediate Tibetan,
but hopefully eventually then people can all be together and reading just directly and learning all
together.
Yes. Thank you, Jenny, for the day to the precisely most specifically the days have been posted by
Jenny in the chat if you want.
OK, next question. I was studying and looking at the website for the three year program.
I want to cover all aspects of Tibetan during three years.
Is the main aim of this course towards translation and publication of text?
OK, I'll try to cover all of it. Yes, I think it's important to learn the scripts.
So probably we'll be doing that as well.
It's kind of I this is my personal view, but I consider that is kind of a weakness of the way
Tibetan is taught in many universities, for example, without learning who may and accursive scripts
.
It's usually something you can learn very quickly when you have Tibetan like in the weekend.
But some even like some people at advanced levels in universities don't learn it.
So, yeah, yeah, we'll learn that at some point.
But the goal is the main course towards translation and publication of text.
I would say to that, no, the translation is an art in itself, and it involves, in my experience, as
much work working with how to express express things in the destination language as well as
understanding of the literature.
And there are existing programs for that, and that's really not our main goal to train students to
become translators.
We really will be focusing more on developing an in-depth understanding of text that for the most
part are already translated.
And, of course, that can be an item that would be very useful for people who want to do translation
in the future, but it's not a translator training program, per se.
That's not the main goal of this program is more a scholar practitioner program for people who want
to practice and apply understanding of the of the view to their own contemplative practice.
Thanks for the question, Dario. Another question, is there any possibility to focus mostly on the
Tibetan?
So I think that would mean study only take only the Tibetan program and not the philosophy.
Or maybe take the philosophy, but not focus so much on it.
Yeah, as I said, our priority or what we would really like is to create a community of students who
all study the same material together at the same time.
But that being said, especially for the live person, there may be people who want to take only the
Tibetan.
Good question. I mean, I'm not I'm not sure, really. So I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Maybe that could be
possible.
I think we'll have to discuss this. We have to see. I'm not completely against it, but at the same
time.
So let me say I'll consider this. I consider this. But I don't want to guarantee right now.
It's something I've been thinking about. But I really would like to encourage people to take the
whole thing.
But if they want to take only the Tibetan, if it doesn't interfere with any rest, it might be
possible.
So let me think and get back to you about that. That's OK, Garland and Nancy, whoever you ask that
question.
Since is Nancy. OK, thanks.
Any other question? I see there is a question being written right now.
I'll wait a bit.
The OK question about the costs and expenses in the Web site, the cost indicated in the Web site
for the three year.
OK, the the cost per program, which is I think three thousand eight hundred fifty dollars per year.
Get to cover the teaching fees.
So we do have support for the programs and generously from my family foundation.
But we also have costs running it and we sort of want to keep the program rolling.
And also we do we are generously hosted by PSL, but we also don't want to be a burden like
financially on the center.
So that's why we have the cost as they are.
As we said on the Web site, though, you know, if it's really a problem for people, we can talk
about it.
And there are ways we're developing program for a scholarship or to help people cover those fees
when if you're really not able to do that.
And also there's something which we ourselves as the MIPAM Institute will not be going to be able
to remove is like the cause for living accommodations at Pema Samili.
Because, you know, somebody has to cover that, but we're trying to keep it as low as possible and
so not to be prohibitive in any way.
And I think for the amount of hours and teaching you get, we're trying to keep it reasonable.
So if the program cost itself is a problem, we can you can be in touch and we can talk about it.
There's also some we had some generous donations to support people who want to take it, but don't
have the needs.
But that's for the one year.
Can one pay for one semester or no need and then for another?
Yeah, I'm sure we can have some flexibility regarding the payments like twice a year or something
like that.
That will be possible. And, yeah, I think regarding reimbursing fees and things like that, we haven
't worked all of these details out, but I would think like maybe per semester, I mean, or per
semester or.
Per half year, roughly would be the way it would be processing the payments.
And so if somebody needs to leave, for example, they would not be responsible for the cost of the
whole program in advance.
We could work on something like that.
Thank you. OK, another question from Emma.
A question on behalf of a friend with the program makes sense for some without much background in
the Dharma.
Is the aim towards established practitioners?
We really want to make it accessible for people who don't have a lot of prior study of those
materials.
But at the same time, just from hearing from the people who are interested in joining, most people
already have a quite good background in Buddhist practice.
So it will be made available really for people who don't have a strong background.
And we will in that case, we will have things like recommended readings to help people get prepared
to be able to follow.
But really, no, you don't need any kind of big background.
Of course, it would be more work for somebody who is not familiar at all with Buddhism.
And it's a big commitment in time and so forth for people, somebody who doesn't really know what
Buddhist thought is about.
But we're trying to make it available for people without any kind of formal requirements to begin
with.
Thank you. Another question.
Thanks to Jenny. Is this program for students of any school of Tibetan Buddhism?
Yes. Of course, everybody is welcome. Students should know, though, that, yeah, we are a Buddhist
center and this is a Buddhist program.
And so is like that. That is the kind of our bias. We're not hiding that.
We're trying to study the teachings as something to apply in our lives based on the lineage and
based on our teachers instruction.
So, yes, like it's not. But of course, there are different ways of being committed to Dharma
communities in Buddhist teaching.
So we're not going to be testing any sort of things that people kind of preferences people have.
But regarding any school of Tibetan Buddhism, yes, everybody is welcome.
Now, we don't hide that our main sort of connection with Tibetan images is through the Nyingma
school, through BBC, through our teachers.
And that also will be reflected in the kind of commentaries we study, for example, mostly written
by Nyingma authors such as Mipham Rinpoche.
And people like that. But that being said, is the main materials, the Indian treatises are common
to all schools of Tibetan Buddhism.
And so if people come from a slightly different school, there's really no problem.
And that's really no problem at all for us. Like everybody is really welcome.
And of course, you won't be required to follow any sort of orthodoxy or follow any of you.
The approach is really open ended inquiry. But that being said, yes, it is kind of based on the N
yingma school.
But yeah, nothing is required in terms of being committed to any lineage or school or anything like
that.
It's really open for everybody. And the Tibetan language is the same for all Tibetans, like all the
Tibetan Turkey, Tibetan classical Tibetan is the same.
That's it. And our approach is really to be as much as possible non-sectarian, to treat all the
Buddha's teachings as fit instructions.
And to welcome any sort of question or inquiry. And that includes also is traditional also in the
Tibetan system to sort of consider the different interpretations made by other schools.
When we go in depth into study, that happens whether you want it or not.
So it's not going to be restricted in any way to only Nyingma or anything like that.
And of course, our approach is a little bit more traditional. But what is very important for me is
to not just treat that as kind of ideas in the museum of the history of ideas,
but really develop our own understanding based on our current world.
And there's some work of translating to the other language we are familiar with, really developing
our understanding each for ourselves.
And the goal is not just to learn the orthodox view. The goal is to be able to develop our own
understanding, to apply to our own life, our own practice.
And that means that the questions that come up are not all in the Indian treatises.
So we keep it alive as a live study. And so in that sense, yeah, there will be a lot of open
approach to all kinds of questions that people may have based on their own background.
Thank you. Okay. Regarding applications, is there a separate form? So far, we're just going with
applications through email.
So you can send us an email. There's an address, applications@miphaminstitute.org.
And now we're asking CV and a short statement and two references really is just to help us
understand know you better.
And so we also want to make sure that people join like are in good conditions to be kind of have a
successful experience going through the program.
And that's really why we're asking for those materials. But just as email is fine.
And I would like to say, like, it's very possible that we may ask to meet in person for a short
time just to make sure, you know, that we're on the right page and get to know you and you get to
know us.
And maybe you have people have more questions. But so far, yeah, you can just send it as an email
and we'll go through those and probably get back to you very soon and then get a final approval in
early April.
What's the date? I think 15th of April, I think something like that.
OK, is there any idea yet on the time of day for online daily classes?
OK, that's good. Getting into the details.
This is not set yet, but I would probably imagine that we would have.
As I said, one of the one we go online, there will be some prerecorded sessions that people can
take at their own convenience.
When we're at PSL, it will be probably both morning and afternoon sessions, but no early morning
and no night.
Although I haven't considered that if that is if that were to make life easier for people who are
doing the online programs, I could consider that.
That's the kind of thing, for example, you could write us about and say during the online session,
it would be better for me to take the live session later on in a day or something like that.
We can consider that it really depends on how many students we have and where they are located.
There's an issue also sometimes with time zones. People who may live in other areas, whether on the
West Coast or even in other continents.
So I don't want to set it now before we know who is there and how it's going to work.
But probably, I mean, we could do something, for example, like trying to keep classes within the
before lunch.
So if somebody has a part time job, they can work in the afternoon or something like that, but it
is not set yet.
But we will have some flexibility with that.
But I think we'll wait and see who's joining and what their needs are and we'll try to be flexible
and accommodate people there.
Me, I prefer morning classes because afternoon is not that good, but we can also do that.
We'll see. OK, yeah, if for applications, there's a link to our page there.
OK, another question, diploma or degree.
OK, so, yes, we're hoping that people who complete the three year program will be giving some
formal recognition.
But that would be a statement from the institute.
There will not be any formal academic degree recognized by the US government or anything like that,
because we're just not going to get into those administrative sides of things for a while, I think.
That being said, it's possible, I think, after a while, that universities, for example, might
recognize our courses as prior study.
And that could help you to sort of establish prerequisites for some courses, for example, in
Tibetan.
We're just starting. So as you probably understand, this has not been set up yet.
But, yeah, although we're not ourselves trying to develop university types of programs and degrees,
I'm very happy and open to have good collaboration with existing universities and things like that.
And it's possible maybe even people from other places might want to join eventually.
So hopefully, yes, there will be some sort of recognition.
But I can't really speak on behalf of the universities and whether they will recognize what we do.
But my aim and my background is teaching Tibetan at university, in university programs.
I started teaching at McGill in 2008 and then here at the Nepal at Rangjungishi Institute during
the 2010s.
And that would be our approach is to have as rigorous or maybe even more rigorous in the university
and to develop very, very strong knowledge of the language.
And usually universities are pretty good at recognizing that by testing, like prior levels of study
and things like that.
But probably not formally in purely academic terms.
But you will be recognized with certificates and things like that.
Regarding certificates for partial completion of the program.
Yeah, we haven't worked those details out yet.
I think you can definitely get a letter saying you did one year or two years of MIPAM Institute.
But I think regarding the certificate of completion of the course, the focus will be on completing
the whole three year program at this point.
Well, we've already been over an hour, but I'm happy to state because there are still questions
coming up.
So, of course, feel free if you have something else to do or need to go.
But I'm happy to keep answering questions.
OK, should we email contact at MIPAM Institute?
Yes, you should email us as much as you'd like.
For any general questions, we have contact at MIPAM Institute for admissions.
Please use the link or send to admissions at MIPAM Institute.
This just helps us here internally, like keeping track of applications and things like that.
But yeah, those addresses work.
Definitely. And we're a small team now, so we basically see everything.
You can email to us at contact.
And for admissions, if possible, please use the admissions email address.
And for any questions, really, don't be shy.
You can just email us.
It's much more useful for us to know specific questions than trying to guess what we would need to
know.
So, it looks like there are no further questions.
Was this useful?
Yes.
Thank you.
Yes, OK.
Good.
I'm happy.
This was useful.
So, is anybody seriously considering joining?
I mean, some of you do because you already sent an application, things like that.
But yeah, don't be shy. Get in touch with us.
And we can meet also in person if you have any further questions.
But it's new and we're moving a little bit fast.
But yeah, we're launching it.
And I hope some of you will join us next fall at PSL.
And we start, I think, Kenpo Morumachi is sort of what he told us is that, yeah, this can really be
something important for the transmission of Dharma teachings in the West.
And he emphasized also that this was really part of Kenmo, Kenmochi Kenchampadenshe that I was
vision to eventually I have Shetra at PBC.
I mean, just in the US and the West in general, especially at PBC, as you know, Kenmochi himself
was a great practitioner.
But also very versed in the philosophy and language grammar and all of that.
And we're trying to honor that vision and to maintain it and pursue it.
And we hope to open the door for this aspect of transmission of Dharma to be established in the
West, in the US, in North America.
So it's a big vision.
In our small way, we're trying to do a kind of small step for that big vision.
So I'm really happy to see that there's interest and also a shared interest for that program.
So thanks for joining and thanks for your interest.
And I hope we can talk about it more and we can eventually maybe meet in person and you can join us
.
And that we all learn together more.
Thanks, Philippe. And the website is beautiful.
Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you, Charlie.
A lot of artwork from my family.